### List

- **List** refers to a collection of data which are normally related. Instead of storing these data as separate variables, we can store them as a list. 
  - for instance, suppose our program needs to store the age of 5 users. Instead of storing them as `user1Age`, `user2Age`, `user3Age`, `user4Age` and `user5Age`, it makes more sense to store them as a list

**Example:**
```python
userAge = [21, 22, 23, 24, 25]
```

Alternatively, you can access the values of a list from the back. The last item in the list has an index of -1, the second last has an index of `-2` and so `forth`. Hence, `userAge[-1] = 25`, `userAge[-2] = 24`

If you write userAge3 = userAge[2:4], you are assigning items with index **2** to index **4-1** from the list userAge to the list userAge3. 
In other words, userAge3 = [23, 24].


:one:
- the notation 2:4 is known as a slice. 
- whenever we use the slice notation in Python, 
- the item at the start index is always **included**, but the item at the end is always **excluded**. 
- hence the notation 2:4 refers to items from index 2 to index 4-1 (i.e. index 3), which is why `userAge3 = [23, 24]` and **not** `[23, 24, 25]`


:two:
- the slice notation includes a third number known as the stepper. 
- if we write `userAge4 = userAge[1:5:2]`, we will get a sub list consisting of **every second number** from index `1` to index `5-1`
- because the stepper is **2**. hence, `userAge4 = [22, 24]`.

:three:
- slice notations have useful defaults.
- the **default** for the **first number is zero**, and the default for **the second number** is size of the list being sliced. 
- for instance, `userAge[ :4]` gives you values from index `0` to index `4-1` 
- while `userAge[1: ]` gives you values from index `1` to index `5-1` (since the size of `userAge` is `5`, i.e. `userAge` has `5` items).


:four: :heavy_plus_sign:
- to add items, you use the `append()` function. 
- for instance, if you write `userAge.append(99)`, you add the value `99` to the end of the list. 
- your list is now `userAge = [21, 5, 23, 24, 25, 99]`

:five:  :heavy_minus_sign:
- to remove items, you write `del listName[index of item to be deleted]`. 
- for instance, if you write `del userAge[2]`, your list now becomes `userAge = [21, 5, 24, 25, 99]` (the third item is deleted)