**1. что такое Load Average?** 
- (стоит освежить что это и как работает на одноядерных и многоядерных серверах, мочь объяснить суть своими словами)

  - to understand the Load Average in Linux, we need to know what do we define as load.
  - in a Linux system, the load is a measure of CPU utilization at any given moment.

  - is a metric that is used by Linux users to keep track of (observe) system resources. 
  - it also helps you monitor how the system resources are engaged.
  - it refers to **the number of processes** which are either currently **being executed by the CPU** or are **waiting for execution**.
  - an idle system has a load of **0**. 
  - if each process that is **being executed** or is **on the waitlist**, the load increases by **1**.



**2. Какие состояния процессов есть в Linux? - (стоит освежить знания по Systemd)**

The following are the process states:

  1. Running: This is a state where a process is either in running or ready to run.
  2. Interruptible: This state is a blocked state of a process which awaits for an event or a signal from another process
  3. Uninterruptible: It is also a blocked state. The process is forced to halt for certain condition that a hardware status is waited and a signal could not be handled.
  4. Stopped: Once the process is completed, this state occurs. This process can be restarted
  5. Zombie: In this state, the process will be terminated and the information will still be available in the process table.    

**3. Как проверить сетевую доступность между EC2 и RDS, если на  EC2 установлена минимальная сборка Linux? - **(Разобраться какие команды могут использоваться кроме telnet, в том числе как использовать echo)****


**:one: My DB instance is in a public subnet, and I can't connect to it over the internet from my local computer**

This issue can occur when the **Publicly Accessible** property of the DB instance is set to **No**. 
To check whether a **DB instance** is publicly accessible, you can use the **Amazon RDS Console** or the **AWS CLI**.
- to change the Publicly Accessible property of the Amazon RDS instance to Yes:
    - :one: - Verify that your **VPC has an internet gateway attached to it**. 
    - make sure that the inbound rules for the security group allow connections.
    - :two: - open the Amazon RDS console.
    - :three: - choose **Databases** from the navigation pane, and then select the DB instance.
    - :four: - choose **Modify**.
    - :five: - under **Connectivity**, extend the **Additional** configuration section, and then choose **Publicly accessible**.
    - :six: - choose **Continue**.
    - :seven: -  **Modify DB Instance**.

**:two: My DB instance is in a private subnet, and I can't connect to it from my local computer**

you can resolve this issue by using a public subnet.

when you use a public subnet, all the resources on the subnet are accessible from the internet. 

if this solution doesn't meet your security requirements, then use AWS Site-to-Site VPN. With Site-to-Site VPN, you configure a customer gateway that allows you to connect your VPC to your remote network.

**another method** to resolve this issue is using an Amazon EC2 instance as a bastion (jump) host. 
For more information, see [How can I connect to a private Amazon RDS DB instance from a local machine using an Amazon EC2 instance as a bastion host](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/rds-connect-ec2-bastion-host/)?


**To switch to a public subnet:**
- Open the Amazon RDS console.

- Choose **Databases** from the navigation pane, and then choose the DB instance.

- From the **Connectivity & Security** section, copy the endpoint of the DB instance.

- Perform an `nslookup` to the DB instance endpoint from an EC2 instance within the VPC. See the following example output:
    ```bash
    nslookup myexampledb.xxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com
    Server: xx.xx.xx.xx
    Address: xx.xx.xx.xx#53

    Non-authoritative answer:
    Name: myexampledb.xxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com
    Address: 172.31.xx.x
    ```
- after you have the private IP address of your RDS DB instance, you can relate the private IP address to a particular subnet in the VPC. The VPC subnet is based on the subnet CIDR range and private IP address.

- open the **Amazon VPC console**, and then choose Subnets from the navigation pane.

- choose the subnet that is associated to the DB instance that you found in step 5.

- from the Description pane, choose the Route Table.

- choose Actions, and then choose Edit routes.

- choose **Add route**. For IPv4 and IPv6 traffic, in the **Destination box**, enter the routes for your external or on-premises network. Then, select the internet gateway ID in the **Target** list.
`Note: Be sure that the Inbound security group rule for your instance restricts traffic to the addresses of your external or on-premises network.`

- Choose **Save**.

`**Important**: 
- If you change a subnet to public, then other DB instances in the subnet also become accessible from the internet. The DB instances are accessible from the internet if they have an associated public address.
- If the DB instance still isn't accessible after following these steps, check to see if the DB instance is Publicly Accessible.
-  To do this, follow the steps in My DB instance is in a private subnet, and I can't connect to it from my local computer.`



**:three: My DB instance can't be accessed by an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance from a different VPC**

`Create a [VPC peering connection](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/create-vpc-peering-connection.html) between the VPCs. A VPC peering connection allows two VPCs to communicate with each other using private IP addresses.`

- create and accept a VPC peering connection.

    **Important**: If the VPCs are in the same AWS account, be sure that the IPv4 CIDR blocks don't overlap. For more information, see Unsupported VPC peering configurations.

- update both route tables.

- update your security groups to reference peer VPC groups.

- enable DNS resolution support for your VPC peering connection.

- on the EC2 instance, test the VPC peering connection by using a networking utility. See the following example:
    `nc -zv <hostname> <port>`
   If the connection is working, then the output looks similar to the following:

    ```bash
    nc -zv myexampledb.xxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com 5439
    found 0 associations
    found 1 connections:
        1:    flags=82<CONNECTED,PREFERRED>
        outif en0
        src xx.xxx.xxx.xx port 53396
        dst xx.xxx.xxx.xxx port 5439
        rank info not available
        TCP aux info available

    Connection to myexampledb.xxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com port 5439 [tcp/*] succeeded!`
    ``