**12. Как приложение запущенное в EC2 может получить доступ ресурсам AWS?** 
- Нужно знать IAM role and policy, 
- Instance profile, 
- STS and assume role, стандартные места где могут храниться
- AWS креды в Linux, в том числе возможность прочитать их из EC2 Metadata



- AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a service provided by AWS that lets you control access to your AWS resources. 
- IAM enables you `to control who can access your resources` (**authentication**) and in `which ways` (**authorization**).

**Authentication in IAM**
**Authentication or identity management in AWS IAM consists of the following identities:**

- **Users:** - An IAM user interacts with your AWS resources from the AWS console and the AWS CLI. By default, a new IAM user has no access to any AWS resource.
- **Groups:** - An IAM group consists of IAM users and permissions assigned to those users.
- **Roles:** - An IAM role is an entity with a specific set of permissions.

**Authorization in IAM**
**IAM Policies determine authorization or access management in IAM by granting specific permissions to various IAM identities.**

**What is an IAM Role?**
- an IAM role is an IAM identity that you can create in your AWS account and assign specific permissions.
**What is an IAM Policy?**
- an IAM policy is a document with a set of rules. Each IAM policy grants a specific set of permissions.
- policies are attached to IAM identities like Users, Groups, and Roles. Each IAM policy has a unique name.

**There are two types of policies in your AWS account:**

- **Managed policies:** These policies can be reused and attached to multiple entities. AWS provides a lot of managed policies by default. Customers can also create their own managed policies.

- **Inline policies:** These policies are applied directly to IAM entities. However, these policies are not reusable and cannot be attached to multiple entities.


- IAM Roles manage who has access to your AWS resources, 
- whereas IAM policies control their permissions.
- a Role with no Policy attached to it won’t have to access any AWS resources



**Welcome to the AWS Security Token Service API Reference**

- AWS provides AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) as a web service that enables you to request temporary, limited-privilege credentials for AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users or for users you authenticate (federated users)



- temporary security credentials are short-term, as the name implies. They can be configured to last for anywhere from a few minutes to several hours. After the credentials expire, AWS no longer recognizes them or allows any kind of access from API requests made with them.

- temporary security credentials are not stored with the user but are generated dynamically and provided to the user when requested. When (or even before) the temporary security credentials expire, the user can request new credentials, as long as the user requesting them still has permissions to do so.

**These differences lead to the following advantages for using temporary credentials:**

- you do not have to distribute or embed long-term AWS security credentials with an application.

- you can provide access to your AWS resources to users without having to define an AWS identity for them. Temporary credentials are the basis for roles and identity federation.

- the temporary security credentials have a limited lifetime, so you do not have to rotate them or explicitly revoke them when they're no longer needed. After temporary security credentials expire, they cannot be reused. You can specify how long the credentials are valid, up to a maximum limit.

