**14. Какие типы EBS volumes вы знаете?** 
- Нужно вспомнить как мимнимум gp2, gp3, io1, io2 - понимать как формируется IOPS, Throughput, 
- объяснить какие приимущества дают io диски, по сравнению с gp



**Elastic Block Storage provides highly functional block-level storage that can be connected to any EC2 instance and accessed easily.**

**Volume types**

- Solid state drive (SSD) volumes

- Hard disk drive (HDD) volumes

- Previous generation volumes

**Solid state drive (SSD) volumes**
**Various types of Volumes in EBS are listed below.**

- **General-purpose**
  - **gp3**	
  - **gp2**
  - Transactional workloads
  - Virtual desktops
  - Medium-sized, single-instance databases
  - Low-latency interactive applications
  - Boot volumes
  - Development and test environments
  - `16,000 - Max IOPS per volume (16 KiB I/O)`
  - `1 GiB - 16 TiB`

- Magnetic

- **Provisioned IOPS**
  - **io2 Block Express ‡**
  - **io2**  
  - Workloads that require:
    - Sub-millisecond latency
    - Sustained IOPS performance
    - More than 64,000 IOPS or 1,000 MiB/s of throughput
    - `256,000`
    - `4 GiB - 64 TiB`
  - **io1**
    - Workloads that require sustained IOPS performance or more than 16,000 IOPS
    - I/O-intensive database workloads
    - `4 GiB - 16 TiB`
    - `64,000 †`
- **Cold HDD**
  - sc1
  - Big data
  - Data warehouses
  - Log processing
  - `125 GiB - 16 TiB`
- **Throughput optimized**
  - st1
  - Throughput-oriented storage for data that is infrequently accessed
  - Scenarios where the lowest storage cost is important


Volume type	gp3	gp2	io2 Block Express ‡	io2     	io1

**IOPS**

- IOPS are a unit of measure representing input/output operations per second. 

- the operations are measured in KiB, and the underlying drive technology determines the maximum amount of data that a volume type counts as a single I/O. 

- I/O size is capped at 256 KiB for SSD volumes and 1,024 KiB for HDD volumes because SSD volumes handle small or random I/O much more efficiently than HDD volumes.

**IOPS are Input / Output Operations per Second.**

- Each operation is a read/write to/from a disk volume
- Each operation can vary in the amount of data being read/written.


- if an **I/O operation is > 256 KiB**, the operation is **split into multiple operations**.

- in AWS, each operation is capped at **256 KiB** of data. 

- operations over **256 KiB** are **split into multiple** operations.

- this means that if you perform an operation of 1024 KiB, that's **4 IOPS (1024/256 = 4)**.

In other words, you may not reach the IOPS your disk is capable of providing because you're reading/writing too much data at once.

Here's an example: If your operations are 256 KiB in size, and the volume's max throughput is 250 MiB/s, then the volume can only reach 1000 IOPS.

This is because 1000 * 256 KiB = 250 MiB. In other words, 1000 IOPS of 256 KiB sized read/write operations is hitting the throughput limit of 250 MiB/s.

Where did I get those numbers for this example? Somewhat arbitrarily:

256 KiB is the cap before an operation is split into multiple IOPS.

250 MiB/s is a gp2's volume max throughput

The actual throughput limit varies by disk type (gp2 vs gp3) and their throughput settings. Max throughput it hit 334 GB storage on gp2.
