### Formatting Strings using the % Operator

- :heavy_check_mark: Strings can also be formatted using the % operator. 
- :heavy_check_mark:  This gives you greater control over how you want your string to be displayed and stored.

The syntax for using the **%** operator is 

`"string to be formatted" %(values or variables to be inserted into string, separated by commas)`

- :heavy_minus_sign: There are three parts to this syntax. 
- :heavy_minus_sign: First we write the string to be
formatted in quotes.
- :heavy_minus_sign: Next we write the % symbol. 
- :heavy_minus_sign: Finally, we have a
pair of round brackets ( ) within which we write the values or
variables to be inserted into the string. 

This round brackets with values inside is actually known as a tuple


**example one**

```python
# simple message that formatted using string built-in funct
brand = 'Apple'
exchangeRate = 1.235235245

message = 'The price of this %s laptop is %d USD and the exchange rate is %4.2f USD to 1 EUR' % (brand, 1299, exchangeRate)

print (message)
// The price of this Apple laptop is 1299 USD and the
exchange rate is 1.24 USD to 1 EUR
```

- the **%s** formatter is used to represent a **string** (**"Apple"** in this case) 
- while the **%d** formatter represents an integer (1299). 
  
If we want to add spaces before an integer, we can add a number between **%** and **d** to indicate the desired length of the string. 
For instance "**%5d**" **%** (123) will give us `" 123"` (with 2 spaces in front and a total length of 5)

- the **%f** formatter is used to format floats (numbers with decimals).
- here we format it as **%4.2f** where 4 refers to the total length and 2 refers to 2 decimal places.
- if we want to add spaces before the number, we can format is as **%7.2f**, which will give us `" 1.24"` (with **2 decimal places**, **3 spaces in front** and a **total length of 7**)

